Add tutorial about resource management in MUnit (#16)
scalacenter/docs.scala-lang: _overviews/toolkit/munit-resources.md

---
title: How to manage the resources of a test?
type: section
description: Describe the functional fixtures
num: 9
previous-page: munit-asynchronous-tests
next-page: munit-flakiness
---

{% include markdown.html path="_markdown/install-munit.md" %}

> In MUnit, we use functionnal fixtures to manage resources in a concise and safe way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In MUnit, we use functional fixtures to manage resources in a concise and safe way.
```

 - The `teardown` function, of type `os.Path => Unit`, deletes this temporary file.

We use the `usingTempFile` fixture to define a test that needs a temporary file.
Notice that the body of the test takes a `tempFile` as parameter.
The fixture is responsible to create this temporary file, using its `setup` function, and to clean it up after the test, using its `teardown` function.
It is all done automatically.

In the example, we used a fixture to manage an instance of `os.Path`. In general, fixtures can manage all kind of resources, such as a table in a database, a connection to a local server, a folder...

## Composing `FunFixture`s

In some tests, you may need more than one resource.
You can use `FunFixture.map2` to compose two functionnal fixtures into one.

```scala
val using2TempFiles: FunFixture[(os.Path, os.Path)] =
  FunFixture.map2(usingTempFile, usingTempFile)

using2TempFiles.test("merge tow files") {
  case (file1, file2) =>
    // body of the test
}
```

Using `FunFixture.map2` on a fixture of type `FunFixture[A]` and a fixture of type `FunFixture[B]` returns a fixture of type `FunFixture[(A, B)]`.

## Other fixtures

> `FunFixture` is the recommended type of fixture because it is the most easy to reason about: each test use its own resource in isolation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`FunFixture` is the recommended type of fixture because it is the easiest to reason about: each test uses its own resource in isolation.
```

Reviewer 2: I think that part should come earlier in the tutorial. Also, I don’t think `FunFixture` should be recommended because it is the easiest to reason about, but it should be recommended in case the problem you want to solve requires creating a resource whose lifetime is scoped to the execution of a single test in a test suite.

Author: Yes I should say earlier that the lifetime of the resource is single test.

But still I think this one is easier to reason, precisely because the resource spans only one test. Otherwise we have dependencies between the tests: one test can fail because of the side-effect on the resource of another test.

It is worth mentioning that they are other fixtures but I don't want to encourage people to use suite-local fixtures.

> `FunFixture` is the recommended type of fixture because it is the most easy to reason about: each test use its own resource in isolation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`FunFixture` is the recommended type of fixture because it is the easiest to reason about: each test uses its resource in isolation.
```

> For more flexibilty, `MUnit` contains other types of fixtures: the reusable fixture, the ad-hoc fixture and the asynchronous fixture.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more flexibility, `MUnit` supports other types of fixtures: the reusable fixture, the ad-hoc fixture, and the asynchronous fixture.
```

To be honest “reusable fixture” does not tell much about what it does. I guess it’s a type of resource whose lifetime is scoped to an entire test suite. If this is the case, I would suggest saying it explicitly.

Author: There are two kinds of "reusable" fixture, the test-local one and the suite-local one. So I don't really know why they are called reusable test fixture? As if the `FunFixture` is not reusable? To me it's rather a question of Functional style versus object oriented style.

I don't want to expand more on them because IMO the `FunFixture` is the only one we need in a large majority of cases. Curious people can read the MUnit document and make their own opinion.
